just hours after a ceasefire between
israel and hamas came into force this
morning there were clashes between
israeli police and palestinians around
the al-aqsa mosque in the old city of
jerusalem
violence at the holy site was one of the
flashpoints that led to the 11-day
conflict which has ended with both sides
claiming victory
in gaza at least 243 people were killed
among them more than 100 women
and children 12 people were killed in
israel by
rockets fired by palestinian militants
our middle east editor jeremy bowen
reports now from gaza
at two in the morning the ceasefire
started in gaza
time to celebrate survival and to swear
allegiance to jerusalem the holy city
only 60 miles away that most gazans have
never visited
israel forbids it
we sacrificed everything for jerusalem
he's saying
and in jerusalem palestinians were up
late too
delighted that hamas declared they were
fighting for palestinian rights in the
city
israel says jerusalem is the eternal
capital of the jewish people
and will not be divided again
first light in gaza was not a new start
the conflict with israel
runs deep but no air strikes and time to
reflect
men from islamic jihad which fought
alongside hamas had no regrets
they paraded in khan yunus one of gaza's
towns
to bury nine men from their unit
they were killed in a strike on a tunnel
on the fourth day of bombing
hamas thought the tunnels were safe
locating and hitting them from the air
was a significant achievement for israel
[Music]
thousands came to honor the dead men
here in gaza as well as in israel there
is no sense
that they've come to the end of their
fight
[Applause]
the bodies could only be recovered after
the cease-fire
they're digging for others high morale
here will infuriate israeli nationalist
politicians
once said israel had surrendered to
terrorism
this is a huge demonstration of support
for the armed wing of hamas the cassand
brigades
and they're sending a message as well
that despite
the hammering they've taken from the
israelis
that they're still here they're still
ready to fight and they're talking as
well
about jerusalem that's been the theme
of many of the chants here in the
cemetery
and in jerusalem more violence between
palestinian worshippers
and israeli police at the axa mosque the
holy places
in the city are charged with national as
well as religious significance for
israelis and palestinians
in gaza hamas claimed victory as israel
did too the cease-fire stops the killing
until the next time it doesn't settle
the conflict
or even freeze it
but it has transformed gaza's streets
the people are out of hiding a day ago
going out could get you killed now
there's a chance to feel alive
now the israelis are keeping a close eye
on what's going on here the whole time
i've been standing here
i can hear a military drone in the air
above but i think they're pretty
confident
the ceasefire is going to hold on the
way down from jerusalem
i could see them packing up their iron
dome anti-missile
system at least from some of the
batteries and taking it away on a lorry
now southern israel was absolutely
paralyzed by the attacks even though
there was that big disparity
in casualty levels and here in gaza
there's a lot of rebuilding to do
people have lost their homes but as well
as that
the militant groups will be rebuilding
their
smashed up positions probably their
tunnels and most of all
their arsenals jeremy thank you
jeremy bowen there reporting in gaza